Before we talk about how the technical BA fits into the agile world,
let's quickly go over the agile foundation and their participants.
Here are the basic attributes and qualities of agile and
Scrum to set the foundation for this module.
First, agile delivers software incrementally and iteratively.
Incrementally means we have a process in which software
is developed and delivered in parts.
Each part or increment represents a completely working piece of functionality.
The size of the increment is not really important,
but is in fact fully coded and tested.
Now, iterative process is one that makes progress through successive refinement.
For example,
in the first iteration we have a web page that you can search
for courses at a university with maybe only three search filters
and four columns of returned data.
And maybe in the next iteration we have a few more
complex filters and more course attributes.
As you can see, we are developing the page in parts,
and its function grows with each iteration.
Value-driven versus plan-driven.
Agile is often referred to as a value-driven approach as opposed to the
traditional waterfall approach that is plan-driven.
Hence, iterations need to provide value versus an arbitrary planning date,
forcing the features that may not provide needed value.
These are very different models indeed.
Also with agile,
the value of features drives the order of the work
to be developed and delivered.
Items with the most value, as determined by the business,
are prioritized the highest.
And for each iteration or sprint the items are reprioritized
since business can always be changing.
And the agile principles based on the Agile Manifesto drive
the way the work itself is performed.
Most importantly to me is for you to be flexible and adaptable at all times.
Nothing that I will be discussing in this module is cast in concrete,
life is not that simple.
With these foundations in mind,
they will act as the underpinnings of an agile project.
And as with all projects, they have a lifecycle.
Now, let's explore that.
Agile/Scrum process groups.
A process group simply denotes a collection of one or more
processes that accomplish something, in our case an agile project.
Now,
with traditional project manager methodologies we had
five process groups: initiation, planning,
execution, performance, monitoring, and lastly,
closure.
So with agile we have four.
The first is projects.
Projects have releases.
That is, a project will be made up of a series of product releases.
There are multiple iterations per release,
just as there are multiple releases per project.
Also in Scrum terminology, an iteration is known as a sprint.
And, of course, daily work,
which is what the team does every day within and iteration or sprint.
Several days of work make up an iteration or sprint, usually two weeks.
Now,
let's check out the participants and their roles and
expectations in the agile process.
Here are the typical roles of an agile/Scrum team.
An agile or Scrum team has a slightly different composition than a
traditional project with three specific roles.
The first, the product owner.
Now, they represent a line of business, steering committee,
department or other segments of the user or customer communities.
The product owner,
who is the personal responsible for managing the business requirements,
and those requirements are also known as the product backlog.
The product owner has a very key and critical role
of gathering the requirements, ordering,
and prioritizing the requirements,
and ascertain the value of each to the business.
Also,
the product owner needs to express the items clearly so that they
are understandable by the development team,
so they know what to work on next.
Development teams are cross-functional, but working concurrently.
I want to emphasize this since in the traditional
project model typically code is developed,
then tested,
and then moved into preproduction environments as
separate teams under processes.
This team is working together concurrently throughout the development process.
Hence, the development team can include testers,
designers, operations engineers,
business analysts or other skills or capabilities required,
in addition to developers.
And lastly,
in the Scrum world the Scrum Master is facilitating
the adherence to the Scrum process, and the team is self-directed,
that is without a team leader.
What I have seen so often in the absence of a Scrum Master is a dev
team leader or a tech leader that still provides the agile/Scrum
process guidance along with team leadership.
I actually like this model quite a bit.
Now let's add a little more detail to the development team on the next slide.
Here are the typical roles I have seen as part of the dev team.
Software developers, certainly the most typical members of the team.
This includes front-end developers, back-end developers,
database experts, and many other developer-like skills.
Creatives.
These team members design the look and feel, artwork, and the user experience.
Usually the creatives hand off their output to the software
developers to actually implement in HTML,
style sheets, things like that.
QA engineers, who will be doing the testing of the product,
whereas the software engineers will do the unit testing.
The QA engineer will do end-to-end full integration testing.
Data or database engineers.
They will obviously work with data, designing databases,
moving data, transforming data, and things like that.
Dev lead and/or project manager.
Typically,
I have seen that one software developer is acting as the dev or technical lead,
and he or she is more senior in experience and the
team likes and appreciates that role.
I threw in project manager also.
They are not part of the agile/Scrum team per se,
but act as a liaison between the team and IT management,
whereas the Scrum team works with the product owner
in the business for requirements.
This then provides a communication channel to IT in
terms of how the project's doing, budgets,
schedules, milestones,
and other more pure management artifacts that are required by IT management.
Next, system architects.
Many times on complex projects system architects are required as well.
This list I've just presented is from my own experiences.
But I have typically not seen technical BAs,
or in fact business analysts in general,
as regular mediums of agile teams.
That role seemed to be played by the developer or to
a greater extent by the dev lead.
This to me is an error,
we definitely need BAs and/or technical BAs as an integral part of the dev team for agile/Scrum development.